# Operational Compability: GitHub and development platforms

GitHub: I really think they could ban me if I turn this into gigabyte-database.
- Now the github will contain drivers.
- Database compability guarantees that *system administrators* can create databases and caches.
- I think database should be compatible with temporary folders, if generated automatically: github can be disabled.

Database development, now, is secondary.
- I consider, whether it would be better: refactor all counters so that they use this central function, and I can create gigabyte-databases:
  - Neocities: can contain multitude of files user is downloading for cache and precalculation - it's right an O(minus) tag if complicated calculation is served by index or hashed counterpart. Still it's questionable: neocities editor dislikes large files and it's description does not fit turning it to multigigabyte-database.
    - We rather create few-hundred-element json files counters need, and update counters to accept data files from central provider: they remain static html with their permanent json files.
  - Hugging Face is right place for multigigabyte databases and operational compability layer exists:
    - Designed for AI training, but not accepting binary files.
      - Folders must contain md files to be processed by AI heads.
      - They must contains copies of Q&A in either json, anki, or easily converible md. Three flags.
      - This can serve datasets as standard md builds with compability metadata. AI has standard heads to process this (well "head" is *my term*).
      - This can especially well serve datasets, which are converted to Q&A.
        - Q&A will be marked: "\[This Q&A is served by Laegna Automated Generator implementation for: ***\<action\>***\, version: ***\<datestring-or-common-version\>***]"
          - Common version marks generator name and identity, as well as update flag, and can be found as database description; action is file-internal type.
- Flask is now "partially commercial", free services dropped, and any Laegna system must be thus ported into open source provider which is easily served.
  - Flask is told to utilize too much server-side resources based only on bad programming quality - in React, it takes reach to creat unoptimized code and it's rather not a sign of "being just a beginner and utilizing the power of Python" - rather, in Reach such is utilized as service, can be debugged and switched off, to explain it as a non-programmer easily would.

## Operational Plan

All these details considered:
- Old database formats will be removed.
  - Old generators will be emulated and their graphical processors ported to new database format.
    - All data is important and will still be provided.
- Documentation API
  - Documentation must be autogenerated for every field, thus json format becomes OOP class structure.
    - It must be enabled that developers implement their own MongoDB or SQL services, or their own ORM or other model enabled not supported by it's design.
- AI tooling API
  - AI must create a tool which enables functionality as AI calculator tool, where AI can query about python functions, run easy functions on laegna numbers and generate tables and other memory objects.
  - AI can not process the whole json files at instance and without heavy load on context window:
    - Brute force database is disabled even for R in 0.5, 1 to 4.
    - Wisdom particularly means:
      - AI must query intelligently and documentation API is enabled in toolkit
      - AI asks database filtered content and this can be enabled SQL or MongoDB if exists - for example, developer enables direct query through their own mongodb or sql module.
        - This is developer support, not grass-grain user level support with dumb needs and experiences or low learning curve. Users must not criticize it and documentation is provided in dev mode of the system, warned against.
     - Enabling AI still supports end-users: AI is responsible provider for modern-era intelligence.
       - Enabling toolkit, for example for Ollama drivers (local machine) or CoPilot extensions and toolkit:
         - ***Enabling toolkit simply means providing documented simple-form functions as first-level cityzens in AI's trained heads.*** (notice "head" is *my own term*, altough intelligent AI will understand it in it's own terms and metaparallels and "non-cognitive but spiritual thinking of 5th element the Metal, documented properly"; metal is classic carrier of spirit, along with aether and space in buddhism and particularly aether in buddhism and platonism - east and west, in their parallel civilizational gene and genesis, almost by God "of their gene" - it's highest distribution of will for not one but every race).
         - Documented: AI can naturally acess documentation for every function, which must precisely tell what can be done with it. Number of functions is minimal and each has short, like 100 char descr. uttl.
         - Functions: AI can access functions as it's "toolkit", provided by specialate provider, for example enabling a tool means providing all it's functions as provider.
           - Function is very simple, for example "laegnanumbertodecimal('AA', False)".
           - Backservice is very powerful, for example natural python script or executable, which gets "AA" and False as input and gives an AI it's documented output.
             - AI can be trained to use the service more intelligently, or provided a RAG-contained execution toolkit.
           - It's also not hard to load some contextual data about AI toolkit, for example a simple manual in md format I write nowadays like I used to write html, css and js: naturally.
             - I do not write html, css and js any more and I do not know them, what I used to know is old - today, I write tasks about these simple things CoPilot does in a second or naturally after debug and fix process.
               - For CoPilot I really have to simplify: yet, so much is done and it's naturally visible how CoPilot does understand me - also by it's own texts in patterns of it's generational models, where it will understand even it's own bias.
                 - ChatGPT as more popular-inspirational-creative and less scientific-intellectual-coding model, where CoPilot is introvert-in-a-sense and ChatGPT is definite extravert, altough CoPilot is modelled professional. ChatGPT is a clever man you meet on street.
                 - Because ChatGPT has not clarified about every point it did not understand, documenting all it's results of understandings as it's early-version patterns in my repositories, we concentrate on CoPilot because ChatGPT now has missing links in dev process, missing part in Q&A at "the end of session".
                   - So I am initially training with CoPilot, and someone could take responsibility to train ChatGPT up: it must complete and document it's patterns of understanding after discussions of Q&A, which is all enough documented to be a context for single question, finally - provided in training as RAG mock, later as RAG content.
- Programmatic tooling API - today we say Robot tooling API, because any robot is more stupid and more domain-based than any AI, for example we have robots in factories, and their simple-to-understand but hard-to-process roles, running on causal and programmatic (computational) logic:
  - Interface provides all tools to access API functions.
  - Interface caches complex ops, limits caches to current process and task, and system administrators or programmers can store the necessary parts of cache in desired format as database is huge;
    - json format serves as example for variable names.
      - condition is: every data structure must be able to serve a doc, which enables dict with "Doc" and "Value" injected linear-fractally.
      - json output is parallelized with headers which follow convention for mongodb or sql: for example, later versions might contain id-id connectors, such as having one id table which has plain list of every number as unique index of itself, and other tables can refer to this as a key. Keys uniquely index items they are associated with, and this two-column or simple table provides an sql structure or mongodb key table.
        - by table of key and doc, sql relational and mongodb symmetric data format is provided with basics at later versions.
  - Programmatic tooling means output is reached

## Portability

I write ports to these versions:
- Initially, Python must be able to create database structures and provide with calculations.
  - This is the most basic implementation itself.
  - Altough the only language, by design python is already optional and same data files generated from multiple languages would do.
- Second, javascript must be enabled.
  - Provided by node.js and browsers we enable in web, and also standard access interfaces for AI, robots, programs and humans alltogether, the web interface works on server and client side.
- Fourth, optional languages C# and Go: masterpieces of simplicity of real-time advanced programming. I implement this if I got kind of "free time", so it's forth.
- Third, Julia and Prolog beautified interfaces:
  - Prolog: at least one logical programming example for all database with basic functions and content is a goal.
  - Julia: a simplified, mathematical programming language like python, but with it's own mathematical benefits where python would pale as comparison as engineering tool, altough the creator - mathematician.
    - Imagine this development as fractal tree: 1. comes in-terms, 2. comes in-needs, 3. comes in-desire and 4. in-infinity. These are I, O, A, E: 1, 2, 4, 16 is the lane index of these and we decide over time, what short or long term means - I just progress as my hands would guide and be endabled for.

These programming languages give examples for:
- C and C++
- Basic
- Pascal

They can be compressed to faster, simpler or more classical language set. This means users of those languages are enabled for porting, interested in their own straightforward gain:
- Go, C#, Python and Prolog provide structural similarity to various programming, scripting and logical languages, and everything it takes to do lazy loading - functional languages can use the database interfaces and decide either indexing or lazy loading.
  - I am not very much interested in these languages: slow and tired to reconstruct them.
    - You can yet find many languages I am interested *in general*, where these four are my favourite classics, still unbeatable in certain programmer tasks with an AI.

## Interface

LaeGOS math os will take care of all widgets and those are not of concern.

